[docs] Add InputUnstyled docs (#31881)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/base/components/input/input.md

---
product: base
title: React Input unstyled component and hook
components: InputUnstyled
githubLabel: 'component: input'
packageName: '@mui/base'
---

> # Input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Unstyled input
```

> <p class="description">Inputs let users enter and edit text.</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p class="description">The `Input` component allows users to enter and edit text.</p>
```
To follow the pattern we have in the Modal PR.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we have a Features list here as well? Just as we did on the Modal doc.
Also, should we list the Material UI components that use Input as a lower-level construct?

Author: It's a bit tricky here to make a list, because currently none of the Material UI components use the unstyled input. On the other hand, the `ModalUnstyled` is used in the Material UI components (when we started with the unstyled components, we were actually using them in the Material UI components, but after some time, we decided not to, so that we don't block the progress with v5). I would wait for v6 and the components to actually be used before listing them here.

Reviewer 2: Okay! What about the features list?!

Author: That's a good point, I will add it.

Author: Done.

> ## Basic usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Basic input
```
Also to follow the Modal pattern.

> <p class="description">The `Input` component allows users to enter and edit text.</p>

Reviewer: I think this should be more specific.

```suggestion
<p class="description">The `Input` component provides users with a field to enter and edit text.</p>
```

```js
import InputUnstyled from '@mui/base/InputUnstyled';
```

{{"demo": "UnstyledInputBasic.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

> ## Adornments

Reviewer: Should the adornment props be listed in this section?

Author: Good point, I've changed a bit the wording with https://github.com/mui/material-ui/pull/31881/commits/c46d7b3996ee48a274d585abb6d79857f11aaf27

> Sometimes it is useful to add some kind of prefix, a suffix, or an action to an input.
> You can achieve this by using the adornment props.

Reviewer: Tightening this up. Also, should "Adornment" get back ticks here?

```suggestion
You can use the adornment props to add a prefix, suffix, or an action to an input.
```

Author: I've applied https://github.com/mui/material-ui/pull/31881/commits/cb792c12257634f011b858794a2e4112b2aa8057 combining your two comments.

> For instance, you can use an icon button to hide or reveal the password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, two very common use cases of adornments are when the input receives a specific unit of measure (like kilograms or currency) and when you want an icon button to hide or show a password.
```

To be a little bit more descriptive since we have the kg and $ examples in the demo contained as well.

Author: Much better 👍

> {{"demo": "InputAdornments.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

Reviewer 2: Should we have the `InputAdornments` component return code snippet visible? It seems useful to showcase the `adornment` prop in action within the component.

Author: We decided for all unstyled demos to disable the preview until https://github.com/mui/material-ui/issues/31075 is implemented.

> For example, two very common use cases of adornments are when the input receives a specific unit of measure (like kilograms or currency) and when you want an icon button to hide or show a password.

Reviewer: I think a list makes this much easier to quickly skim.

```suggestion
Common use cases of adornments include:
- when an input receives a specific unit of measure (like kilograms or currency)
- when an icon button toggles hiding/showing a password
```

## useInput hook

```js
import { useInput } from '@mui/base/InputUnstyled';
```

The `useInput` hook lets you use the functionality of `InputUnstyled` in other components.
It returns props to be placed on a custom input element, along with fields representing the internal state of the button.

> The `useButton` hook requires the `ref` of the element it's used on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `useInput` hook requires the `ref` of the element it's used on.
```

---
product: base
title: React Input unstyled component and hook
components: InputUnstyled
githubLabel: 'component: input'
packageName: '@mui/base'
---

# Unstyled input

> <p class="description">The `Input` component provides users with a field to enter and edit text.</p>

Reviewer: Since the Markdown back ticks won't render inside the p tag, can we wrap it in `<code>` tags? I believe I saw that on another page recently.

```suggestion
<p class="description">The <code>Input</code> component provides users with a field to enter and edit text.</p>
```

Features:

> - ✨ Supports start and end adornments.
> - 🚀 Can be transformed to textarea using the `multiline` prop.
> - ♿️ Adds the appropriate ARIA roles automatically.

Reviewer: Drop the periods in the list. Also, should `<textarea>` be formatted like an HTML tag? 

```suggestion
- ✨ Supports start and end adornments
- 🚀 Can be transformed to `<textarea>` using the `multiline` prop
- ♿️ Adds the appropriate ARIA roles automatically
```

## Basic input

```js
import InputUnstyled from '@mui/base/InputUnstyled';
```

{{"demo": "UnstyledInputBasic.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Adornments

You can use the `startAdornment` and `endAdornment` props to add a prefix, suffix, or an action to an input.
Common use cases of adornments include:

- when an input receives a specific unit of measure (like kilograms or currency)
- when an icon button toggles hiding/showing a password

{{"demo": "InputAdornments.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

## Multiline

> The `multiline` prop transforms the `input` field into a `textarea` element.

Reviewer: I don't know if we have a rule for this, but personally, I like to see HTML elements written like actual tags just to make it as clear as possible what we're discussing—especially when props are also mentioned.

```suggestion
The `multiline` prop transforms the `<input>` field into a `<textarea>` element.
```

Author: I don't think we are consistent in this, but we may start with this practice. I like it more too 👍

{{"demo": "InputMultiline.js"}}

> If you want the textarea to grow with the content, you can use the [TextareaAutosize](/components/textarea-autosize/) component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want the `<textarea>` to grow with the content, you can use the [`TextareaAutosize`](/components/textarea-autosize/) component.
```

> Unless the `rows` prop is set, the height of the textarea dynamically matches its content (using [TextareaAutosize](/components/textarea-autosize/)).
> You can use the `minRows` and `maxRows` props to bound it.

Reviewer: Rephrasing for clarity.

```suggestion
When using `TextareaAutoresize`, the height of the `<textarea>` element dynamically matches its content, unless the `row` prop is set.
To set minimum and maximum sizes, add the 'minRows` and `maxRows` props.
```
